**Word Count \- 870**  
**Introduction**  
Current graphite anodes used in lithium-ion batteries are at their theoretical limit. For the limitless uses of these batteries such as in electric vehicles, phones, audio devices, etc., a physically larger battery combined with hardware efficiency improvements are needed to improve battery life. Battery improvements today are incremental and the technology behind rechargeable lithium-ion batteries has been around since 1991\. However, many new technologies such as silicon anode batteries are on the horizon and have the potential to extend your battery life.

**Why Silicon**   
Current graphite anode batteries have been nearly “maxed out”. Energy in batteries is measured in watt hours, the energy density of a battery is the watt hours divided by its weight in kilograms. It takes 6 carbon atoms to store 1 lithium ion so the energy density of a graphite anode lithium-ion battery can only be so energy dense until the laws of physics work against it. On the other hand, 1 silicon atom can store up to 4.4 lithium ions. This gives silicon a theoretical specific capacity of over 3,600 mAh/g, nearly 10 times higher than graphite's 372 mAh/g. In practice this allows silicon anode batteries to have around 30-40 percent more energy density than their graphite anode counterparts. This is not only useful for giving users a better experience with improved battery life, it allows batteries to get smaller to minimize waste.

**What’s Preventing Silicon Anode Batteries Today**  
While silicon anode batteries are theoretically superior when compared to their graphite counterparts there are practical limitations to their adoption today. The biggest of which is the fact that silicon batteries expand while charging. When silicon absorbs lithium ions it expands to 4x its original size while graphite only swells 10%. Battery swelling is a preexisting issue with today’s batteries as over time batteries tend to swell which renders them a hazard, and silicon batteries only exacerbate this problem. As the silicon battery discharges the silicon shrinks to its original size. This process of swelling and shrinking shatters the silicon in the battery.  A protective layer in the battery called the solid electrolyte interphase prevents the electrolytes from reacting to the silicon anode and only lets lithium ions through the anode. This protective layer on the silicon anode has to reform on the exposed silicon after it shatters which consumes lithium ions. This leads to the silicon batteries only being useful for a limited amount of charges, as the charge it can hold diminishes quickly through the process of breaking and reforming.

**Solving Silicon Batteries**  
One solution to the expansion of silicon is to use nanotechnology. Using nanowires or nanotubes made of silicon, allow the silicon to withstand the stress of expansion without breaking. Instead of using larger chunks of silicon that are prone to breaking repeatedly, smaller particles of silicon can expand without cracking. Another solution is to create a sponge-like porous structure with silicon so that they have space to expand into when they swell as they are being recharged. This protects the silicon in the battery from cracking while recharging, greatly increasing the battery’s longevity. The final and most common commercial solution used today is to mix a small amount of silicon onto a traditional graphite anode. This allows batteries to have increased energy density without the drawbacks of silicon batteries. 

**Drawbacks and Potential Solutions to these Drawbacks**  
Though these solutions are being explored right now, there are still some drawbacks that prevent their commercial use today. Using nanowires solves the constant cracking, but is expensive to manufacture and sacrifices battery capacity. Even though silicon is a great material for energy density, small wires mean there is a lot more space between the silicon particles leading to lower energy density. A porous battery is incredibly hard to manufacture and expensive. The walls of the structure need to be strong enough to not break, but thin enough so that the silicon has space it can expand into. A potential solution is to create these small tubes of silicon but combine them into a larger structure that behaves more like a standard battery. These smaller particles allow the battery to expand without cracking and don’t lose much energy density as they are packed into a larger chunk of silicon that is more efficient than just having smaller particles. The solid electrolyte interphase which I mentioned before is much harder to form in silicon than in graphite. Since silicon expands the layer needs to be more robust to prevent electrolytes from rushing in as the battery expands. Adding electrolyte additives like Fluoroethylene Carbonate as a sacrificial chemical to form a stronger protective layer, adding more lithium ions in the battery to begin with, known as Pre-Lithiation, or creating stronger polymer binders to help form these layers are potential solutions to this problem. Ultimately, these solutions are still very costly but as manufacturing methods improve and as costs come down silicon batteries can very well be the future of battery technology. Many large corporations such as Tesla, BMW, and Panasonic are using and experimenting with silicon anode batteries as its potential to increase the energy density of rechargeable batteries outweighs the drawbacks of silicon batteries. Drawbacks which are being worked on today.